# MOMS-PI_WMTS_2025
Code used to process and analyze all vaginal metatranscriptomic, 16s rRNA vaginal microbiome profile, and vaginal cytokine data from the MOMS-PI project.

*All raw sequencing data used in downstream analysis was generated by the authors of the following publication*  
Fettweis JM, Serrano MG, Brooks JP, et al. The vaginal microbiome and preterm birth. Nat Med. 2019;25(6):1012-1021. doi:10.1038/s41591-019-0450-2
Serrano MG, Parikh HI, Brooks JP, et al. Racioethnic diversity in the dynamics of the vaginal microbiome during pregnancy. Nat Med. 2019;25(6):1001-1011. doi:10.1038/s41591-019-0465-8

*Associated Publication*  
Cunningham, M et al 2026

**Acknowledgements**
+ High Performance Computing resources provided by the High Performance Research Computing (HPRC) core facility at Virginia Commonwealth University (https://hprc.vcu.edu) were used for conducting this research.
+ This research was [in part] supported by CTSA award No. UM1TR004360 from the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences. Its contents are solely the responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily represent official views of the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences or the National Institutes of Health.
+ Generative AI Disclosure: GitHub CoPilot 2025 release was used for code development including data visualization. CoPilot did not influence the study’s scientific methodology, data analysis, or conclusions but were employed to improve clarity and streamline computational processes.


**Data availability**
+ Open-access data including raw 16S rRNA sequences, cytokine data and limited metadata are available at the HMP DACC (https://portal.hmpdacc.org). Controlled-access data including raw MGS data, raw MTS data and metadata for all subjects analyzed in this study are available at National Center for Biotechnology Information’s controlled-access dbGaP (study no. 20280; accession ID phs001523.v1.p1) and the SRA under BioProject IDs PRJNA326441, PRJNA326442 and PRJNA326441.  Access to additional fields can be requested through the RAMS Registry (https://ramsregistry.vcu.edu). Additional project information is available at the project’s website (http://vmc.vcu.edu/momspi).
